# CS330 Final Journal
## Software Design Approach
<p>	The biggest design skill I acquired while working on the open gl 3d scene was a deeper understanding of the importance of planning and having multiple viable options in case one design choice doesn't work out. My design process first required looking at the most important aspects of the scene. Even if I wanted to do a very complex and large scene with lots of objects I had a deadline and a set of objects to make sure worked first. This tactic can be applied to all of my future projects. I was extremely strapped for time while working on this project and could still ship something within a relative timeframe because I had planned out sets of models that could be implemented based on time left.</p>

## Program Development Approach
<p>My approach to developing code has gone through a fair amount of evolution during the creation of this project. It is somewhat difficult to work with other people's code but for this project, it was essential. The difficulty of c++ and the subject matter required me to have a deeper understanding of the subject matter than would normally be required when implementing other peoples functions. Due to this there was a lot of learning and experimentation required that I don't normally use. Just knowing how something works on a technical level wasn't enough for opengl. There could be multiple different things affecting something as simple as color at any time and because of this it required a thorough investigation into the functioning of the source code that I don't normally feel the need to investigate. Most of the time if it work then that is enough. Especially with the inclusion of time crunches it is a normal occurrence to google a solution and simply apply the package or function simply because it works and is fast. That doesn't work with opengl and I had to read through the code itself and understand what each function is doing to properly do the project.</p>

## Computer Science and Goals
<p>Computational graphics is one of the most complex fields in computer science and c++ is one of the most difficult languages to use or master. Gaining experience with both of these fields allows a person to see the field of computer science from a different perspective than many other classes and professions. It requires an understanding of base-level computer science tools like memory manipulation and functions and a somewhat deep understanding of math and 3d space in general. Getting these systems to work together requires a user to sometimes think outside of the box that they usually do as most modern computer science tools are built upon decades of innovation. Gaining this experience with these technologies will make me better prepared to look deeper into the science of computers. That is the why and how of the inner workings of computers in general.</p>
